begins are at lunch but I will learn my
lesson being in San Francisco this week
with how early the cards are you're like
central or something aren't you Michelle
me and fun fact it just it depends on
the time of year Arizona is daylight
savings so this time of year were
mountain summer were with California so
all my meetings earlier I like to say
the world moves around us just like
Norns alright
what why don't we officially begin hello
everyone welcome to the ipfs weekly call
I love that you guys welcome to the ipfs
weekly call will we get to see what
we're building in the ipfs community
whoa
so I um so before we begin if everyone
could put their names in the ipfs
all-hands weekly agenda
I'll put oh I think I just dropped it in
there for you it's the link in the chat
um Terry will be taking notes for today
so yay Terry let's give him a round of
applause I'm sorry and it looks like we
don't have any special announcements
today so we are going to get right into
our presentation which is going to be
presented by Michelle and she's gonna
give us a sneak peek of what protocol
Labs is doing in terms of like design
and ipfs and ways that we can think
about design so um Michelle it's all you
good
hi al um let's see how do you make it
share some slides yeah it's on me a lot
of windows open it's not something I'm
proud of but yeah exactly
don't even good let's not even start on
the tabs versus the windows
windows and ridiculous amount of tabs
going on so there we go
cool say something if you cannot see a
very plain-looking
design plus I PMS starter slag beautiful
okay well first of all let me introduce
myself in case anyone McCall does not
know me my name is Michelle Hertzfeld I
joined the ipfs team maybe it's nine or
ten months now y'all crazy town and over
the last so I was hired as a product
manager but in my past I had built
remote design teams so I've been trying
to help our design team get off the
ground there's some lovely folks for
also for the design team on this call so
they can weigh in at any point anyone
can win any points at me and say hey
you're here talking nothing and asks for
what I'll talk about today you know
we'll just get started and then I'll go
from there okay
what is designed we'll start with that
it's a front word because I mean there's
a billion things you could include in
this word right you've got like
architecture and fashion design and like
software design and information
architecture so many different things
but of course when we all are when we
hear the word design oh we're gonna
start the design team or something like
that lots of folks go straight to this
specific subset of this big grab bag of
what could be design things that I think
a lot of people think of it as visual
stuff I like illustration and graphic
design visual design maybe web design
thrown in there remember that word but
I'm sure there's many of you on this
call who also know that it's much
broader than that and in our field when
I say our field I mean um software stuff
you know building things for the
internet and for computers this
additional highlighted chunk of stuff
often falls into the quote unquote
designer of you as well and things like
experience design information
architecture product design so many
different words so every time we talk
about what is the design team that
because it's actually kind of a bit of
an existential question I would say that
one of the things that pulls together
a lot of these feels at least on the
software side is the design process that
folks use to actually solve problems
it's more like a problem solving process
than anything else I think this there's
lots and lots of versions of a chart
that kind of looks like this and lots of
different people describe this in
different ways but the overarching point
and why I chose this one is that there's
a bit of a at different points in a
design process you're focusing on
different types of design so you can go
back to oh wow that first slide with all
the different words as some of us just
that you need to make sure you're using
the right thing at the right time so
this little chart at the bottom attempts
to show that at the beginning of a
figuring out a problem process maybe
you're doing more research and strategy
maybe at the end it's a little bit less
and you're doing more development
sideways but it's all this big loop
iterative process how you figure out
what you should be doing in the world
and how you show that to other humans
and make them understand things right
using the right technique at the right
time as I said so that was a super-fast
intro I know you don't want to hear me
talk till the end of time so okay what
about ipfs that's what you're here for
so this is a super this is I'm sure the
other folks on the call to or part of
the design team will have other thoughts
here how many I'll make sure to leave
time at the end of our chat today so you
can have them but like okay what are we
trying to do with design and ipfs one
thing is that we're hoping to build an
open source design practice we'd love to
be an open source project that can make
great design decisions as a lot of
people must call probably no open source
projects aren't really known for their
spectacular design work either a visual
or experience design but we believe we
can do we can improve that conversation
and we're looking I at least I'm looking
to work with other open source projects
as well to help the kind of state of the
art and that in that included more
design work the benefit that of doing
this sort of more user centered design
stuff is that sometimes it turns that we
will build nothing at all when you do
more research up front sometime
you find out that you would have
embarked on a very unhelpful journey and
considering an art field there's so many
places we could go
you know what should we spend our time
on to build this future of the Internet
I have it's really really valuable to do
some of that upfront research so you
know where you should spend your time
because there's a lot we want to improve
and we should choose the places that
will help speed user adoption probably
let's see another point is this open
source design point Billy really need to
figure out how we can break design tasks
or design work down into chunks that
outside contributors can also engage
with you know open source projects on
the development side have done a really
good job at that but on the design side
has a good thing and my quite as much
and in my experience and doing Code for
America and lots of open source work in
federal government the thing that we are
always lacking is product management and
design design work or design folks
because up till now it's taken a lot of
time and engagement to do that work not
sort of not a sort of thing where you
can like take off a Help Wanted feature
and do it in a weekend it's a much more
broad it's a broader thing so how can is
there a way that we can make that
something that I've sees easier to
engage with let's see another thing
that's my personal excitement about
building the design team is figuring out
where we can learn and test alone
complete user journeys so we work at the
protocol layer of course so how the heck
are we even going to test that when like
these applications that we might build
or like things that normal people quote
unquote would engage with our while off
how do we figure out the best way to get
that information to our protocol level
decisions in a way that supports a good
use cases don't whine I think that's a
really interesting spectacular problem
and I'm excited about it and then the
last note on this designing IVFs face is
that a lot of our work will be around
integrating user research techniques and
other design techniques into code and
acts you know our work doesn't have a
GUI a together although some of it some
of it it does some of it does of course
and that's important but for the other
parts that involve AP is and CL is and
documentation I might teach things that
doesn't mean that that doesn't need some
user research or user engagement as well
as lots of fun to make
experiences for developers as you all
probably know all right
so that's all of the intro stuff I have
and then I wanted to just show you one
example of what I've been up to on the
user user research side so Porsha your
introduction was correct with one caveat
that is to say there's a lot of design
work going on and ipfs that I'm
certainly not going to cover all the
specifics of that work for except you
can tell that I've talked a lot about
user research and discovery process in
this presentation but of course there's
all sorts of visual design work
graphical user interface work other
things going on as well and I hope that
our team or design team will continue to
present over the next few months then
get maybe some specific examples of all
the other stuff but I'm showing this
because I think a lot of people haven't
seen it and yeah and it was something
that but I was I was doing so I can
actually speak to it is a user
experience research among other things
so what we've been trying to do is again
figure out how to get input to ipfs
protocol earlier decision-making again
when the use of it by non developers is
a ways off one of the ways we've been
doing this is planning some user
discovery workshops with likely first
adopters or people who will be more
interested probably or we think will be
more interested than others in our
technology one of those is the
scientific research community and so we
went to esup as the Earth Science
Information partners Federation it's in
the US has lots and lots of people who
deal with satellite data these kinds of
things and we had a workshop there some
of the points here let's see what would
be interesting to you all let's see yes
here's an example of you know some of
the things we presented the agenda and
one of the challenges we have in our
space is that this technology so new you
can't run standard user research
workshops where you're just as I know
use this thing or what do you think or
like and how do you imagine in the
future to just do well anyways um you
have to actually teach people around
what that's like
because first and so this workshop had
half of it which was an acid malt giving
an introduction to decentralisation and
the people in the room some of them were
very familiar with our technology some
you know not at all and then after that
baseline was there trying to figure out
a way to support people to talk about
the benefits and kind of scary points of
that work even though a lot of these
concepts were new that was a challenge
we ended up doing it by asking people
that to write down notes on different
types of post-its throughout the initial
part of the presentation you know write
as things are coming up from them about
opportunities and things that are a
little bit maybe not so much had people
break into groups to share notes with
each other if you don't already know
that's a very typical design technique
having a room of 40 people discuss
amongst 40 people doesn't really work
very well because whoever's loudest will
get their voices heard it's better to
break into small groups have people
process those notes in smaller groups
and then present back to the team
there's synthesis and so what we wanted
them to do was think about what their
lives look like today with data
stewardship how some of the features of
decentralisation could apply and then
what that might mean for them in the
future and we got some pretty neat
results lots of pictures lots of
post-its
I love the posters you know people
drawing out their pathways and the next
step for me then is synthesizing that
into okay so what does that mean overall
so I've been taking all of that that
worked with some post-its putting it
into digital form and then coding that
information if you're not familiar with
coding and the user research sense so
what you see here is basically applied
ethnography where you take you know
interview or post it information and
then started playing what the themes are
each one there are different techniques
on how to do that better or worse I
reach out to me if you're curious about
that and I've started figuring out okay
great so which of these things where
people positive about which is that were
negative about and you see a nice blank
slot there about example quotes and
sentiment summaries
because we're not there yet I would like
to write up a report that cuts all this
together and makes it into a more usable
form some example of reports from other
things that I've done might look like
user journeys or presentations that's
with you know quotes from folks
different levels of confusion along a
process line and then specific given
those insights about where people are
confused for example what some next
steps might mean for a product and then
this is my favorite epic huge service
blueprint plus emotional journey map
it's good stuff things like this though
are great because you end up so the
horizontal swim lanes on the bottom are
different parts of the system and the
bottom one there is like the backend
system top Whitman could be like what a
user wants to do you and like how they
interact with a service person like a
human and so if you then map that along
where people are happy or not you can
say oh my goodness out of all the time
we have this quarter we should
definitely focus on you know this part
over here because people are really
unhappy and they look down the line and
see what processes interact right there
you're often surprised at the part
that's broken once you break it down
into those layers
okay so then integrating human centered
design into your work what can you do
because really it's nothing unique or
special as you probably know to like
design folks that they can do the stuff
it's only practice with research
techniques about how to do this work
well so anybody can read about how to do
that and practice unlike anything else
that's that you know the more you do it
the better you go I'm not gonna go into
slots of details here because we don't
have time but feel free to reach out to
me or I think we share these slides
later I'm not sure how that works but
I've grabbed a couple links to two of my
favorite books in this area and also
I've got a link to my can board with
some of my favorite articles like how to
get started on this sort of work so
there you go that's all I've got today I
wanted to just make a quick overview so
now questions dive into anything more
anyone else on the design team wants
bad things this was a bit of Michelle's
opinion from this morning so I'm sure
other folks on the team have other ways
to look at it um
I am really excited that you have a pin
board and really excited that you added
some of the books that inspire or inform
your work because I think there's a lot
of people out there who are designers
who want to go about hey how can I
design this user experience or this app
to best solve this problem so great
um at this point oh we're going to go
over questions so if you can put your
question in a chat and Michelle can
answer it cool should I stop sharing for
sure do you want me to leave it up um
you can stop sharing we could just go
into the vehicle okay I can see you all
anyways awesome so do we have any
questions yeah or something I didn't put
in there if anyone's interested I could
talk at people some like gorilla
research techniques for anyone's project
but question first so yeah um I have a
question so what is the best way to
engage designers in open source like we
have a process in terms of getting
programmers to contribute but how do we
best engage designers to contribute to
the project yeah so from my experience
and like I said Code for America these
sorts of things some of the problem is
that experienced experienced designers
not experienced design alone might
overlap look for the reasons behind like
okay why do you want that why do you
want to make that decision
I need that input so I can figure out
what I should design or how I should do
it this is part of the reason that I
think perhaps our team that's you know
the core ipfs team might end up focusing
more on the user research side my
hypothesis is that maybe if we figure
out a way to do that baseline research
and then provide that in a way that
people can engage with then it becomes
easier for designers to pick off parts
of that and design against that in the
again those those big open source
project spaces I don't know if we've
ever been successful in engaging
engaging that first user research level
very often as a contribution it just
takes so long and if you're reaching out
to folks you know if you're volunteering
or something like that and you're
calling up people who might have you
know not want to share their business
information there's something like that
it helps to be from the original company
or whatever it is so you have some
legitimacy and calling all these folks
and saying like I won't share your
information you know all these processes
that make people feel safe to share
their their insight
so to summarize that I'm hoping that if
we can maybe do some of the legwork up
front and then break that down I'm not
sure how but break that into ways then
maybe it'll be more effective but yeah
I'm curious what other folks think to
you on the call if anyone has a thought
on that front um Jim pick has a question
Jim would you like to read your question
l oh I'm sure I was just thinking about
what we do as a company and when we're
building a lot of tools for developers
which are you know they're code and
libraries and you know how they
integrate something but I don't think
like we it's generally programmers
develop writing things for programmers
and there's really no designer in the
loop like I heard I think we might be
missing something there yeah Jim I agree
we're hopefully good gonna get more
folks to help out but yet the previous
work I've done API usability testing you
know all sorts of CLI so so there's no
reason these techniques can't be used in
that space as well and it should be
because then you end up with a better
tool that people understand and use so
in their regards it's like right now
what do we do and if anyone is
interested you can reach out and I can
give you some tips on that but the very
high level thing is show people you know
have people test your work and if you're
not prioritizing
systems that make it easy for people to
test your work like if it takes you know
like okay it works on your machine but
it takes a half hour for someone else to
set it up on their machine
you should prioritize that work so it's
easier for you to get that feedback loop
in yeah and for example some ap some
stuff of course you don't want to
release to the whole world right away
I'm it's great to get early adopter
testing groups in for api's for example
and actually have them try to build
stuff or you know say okay you're gonna
be our our you know first group or
whatever it is to tell us how it is then
you can get some iterations and before a
broader release does that help a little
bit like design and research and like
knowing what knowing what the the
customer you know wants or needs before
you actually go and code the thing and
design it and I think individually all
programmers do this but you know as as
an organization I think it's harder to
do it yeah hopefully we'll get there I
mean I've seen a typical pre development
space user research the more open-ended
side of things which I think maybe is
doing what you're referring to like how
do you even know what people want and
what should we what sort of things input
should we get before we can start coding
anything you can do a really solid run
on that in six to eight weeks but it
does take that long I think a lot of
developers just haven't had the
experience to do a full discovery
process and that's important
you dealing with humans you have to
schedule them sometimes they miss so
it's not just the like oh my gosh how
could it take six to eight weeks that's
a very reasonable reasonable group the
spread of time in part because of the
human factor and you know getting
stakeholders stakeholders involved
presenting that work in a way that
internal folks are okay with the maybe a
workshop that includes internal folks
yeah all those things but we hope to
cross fingers do more of that in the
future the ipfs design team and
hopefully other ones too
um let's go to the next question my
Johnny Jenny would you like to yeah hey
Michelle just sent a question really
right now a lot of ipfs is really sort
of command line based but in one of the
hardest problems in programming is
naming things so is there a good and
during the design process of a tangible
way of allowing the user to to get to
some commonality on name space
absolutely you can definitely do I use
adjust or usability testing on words and
workaround okay what should we call the
thing or what do people understand that
this thing is there's a couple different
directions that can take I suppose if
it's the like do people understand this
at all then that one's a little bit more
straightforward it's like write the
sentence show it to someone what do you
think this means or draw it put it on a
page if it's a page related thing and
say what do you think would happen next
and you know what do you think you'd get
if this happened and if they respond and
they usually do is something that you
didn't expect at all because that's how
life goes oh that's interesting do that
with lots of people in terms of figuring
out from the start how things might be
organized or called the same thing or
not I should say mmm the general like
way to get information and a lot of
people's brains is to have people if
you're in a room you just do this with
stickies but if you're not you can do it
on with a mural or something like that
that's got a digital whiteboard sort of
thing have people write what they think
these different things should be called
or what what meaning they need out of
the thing on two different little
stickies and drop them all in a
whiteboard and start grouping and
rearranging and putting them together to
see where the commonalities and the gaps
are and as people talk about it they
tend to find out oh I didn't mean that
or oh I Memphis or no that's not the
right group or whatever that is
there's that's in a very very high level
look at that but I can certainly look
around for some like step by step how
you actually facilitate the sort of
conversation
it exists uh put it that way um next
question
Ali I was wondering if anyone who
happens to come across this video or who
is on the call we didn't really give
them a clear like here's how you can get
involved with the conversation but I'm
also aware that we don't have a good
public forum for the design yeah that is
a good point maybe that's an action item
for us then to figure that out and where
people can follow up in the meantime is
there a thing in the meantime Ali what
do you think in the meantime I'm gonna
create an issue on ipfs guru which is
already public and is almost that's the
closest thing we've got so I'll create
an issue there and I'll link to in a
chat narrow and if anyone is interested
in carrying on the conversation they
should just comment on that issue and
then we will know who you are
that's you when we have a better public
forum for conversation thank you that is
really important um and doesn't a design
team have a community sinkhole every
week uh we have an internal sink call it
hasn't been really a community sinkhole
yet so we have to figure out what we
want to do I think okay if we want to
make that one a community call or
there's some other form that would work
better
there's there'll be a repo where they
can't comment and it can like leave them
for suggestions we will figure it out
yeah okay awesome thank you shouter
either ie awesome presentation I was
just thinking about you said that you
were talking to potential early users
like researchers in the sort and I was
wondering what other kinds of Democrat
demographics or early users he was
thinking about when identifying the
requirements or design decisions to make
it easy for them yeah and I'm writing
what you wrote in the chat - yep well
I'll answer what you just asked for some
maybe to your other point in there so
one of what we're trying to sort out of
course we've got developers want to
build apps that's our very direct
feedback loop back and forth and what
I've been trying to focus on is okay
what's the next step
next who would be the next layer after
that so it's looking for folks who have
relatively high tolerance of command
line stuff that's like folks who still
are in Louise a bit but needs a slightly
higher higher introduction levels so and
whose area of expertise might really
benefit for something like this so
that's how we ended up that these like
large science data sets like the
verifiability and resilience that a
system like this provides could be huge
also looking at data archiving and
library spaces like places that have
huge infrastructure for dealing with you
know stewarding information across like
three universities all together and that
kind of thing but there are people that
would also have developers on staff or
their infrastructure folks or something
like that
and then at a next of a lot let's level
up from that say something like a local
librarian who might want to support
stewarding data across their local
community and yeah maybe they do stuff
there the person may be that by default
the tech stuff happens at that local
library but it's not going to be a
person that you know it has or maybe
doesn't have a ton of developer
experience it needs a little bit more of
a GUI approach that kind of thing
awesome
and the next question is from Chris
Chris Waring so he can't use his mic at
the moment he's gotta do you want to so
it's a similar to Jim's question do you
think we'll develop our own human
interface guidelines to help bootstrap
external app developers I suspect this
will make more sense once we have an
ipfs app store yeah I think it'll be
really interesting to see what the right
right level of guidance will be to
provide I think something there will be
super helpful and also around the
experience side of things like there
could be a great opportunity to provide
more guidance on like how people look at
trust or how people think of sharing
that gets some of the you know helps
people start it a little bit higher
level of understanding and what they
need to provide in their apps so that
people feel comfortable using the
distributed web so there's the you know
interface human interface side of thing
and there's also the human experience
side of things
and I think there's a great opportunity
to see how we can share that in a way
that's approachable and not like oh my
gosh I have to read ten years of
research to understand what's going on
again back to that like how can we break
do the that groundwork so make it easy
to engage with this and then in the end
hopefully that trickles down to apps and
things that are more human and then
approachable as well that other people
build well we're going to end it there
Thank You Michelle for giving us this
talking for anyone who's looking at the
video and if you're interested in design
and ipfs we have a link here we also
have the link in the YouTube video if
you look below and thank you very much
and I'll see you next week at the next
ipfs weekly meeting take care bye bye
thank you everyone